# README

## PREREQUISITES

This uses Perl. So you need a recent version of Perl (the stock Perl 5.8 that
comes with every Mac should do fine). You will also need to install:

    autodie
    File::Slurp
    Try::Tiny
    YAML

The best way to do this (in my opinion) is to install `cpanm` and then run:

    cpanm autodie File::Slurp Try::Tiny YAML

## INSTALLATION

To use this script, you need to use iChat. And download these files. Then, do
the following:

Run this on the command line:

    mkdir ~/bin
    cp speak-chat ~/bin
    cp speak-chat.conf ~/bin
    cp iChatSpeakEvents.scpt ~/Library/Scripts/iChat/

Then, in iChat:

 1. Then go to iChat > Preferences.
 2. Select Event: Message Received
 3. Check Run AppleScript and select iChatSpeakEvents.scpt
 4. Select Event: Chat Room Message Received
 5. Check Run AppleScript and select iChatSpeakEvents.scpt
 6. Select Event: Text Invitation
 7. Check Run AppleScript and select iChatSpeakEvents.scpt

## CONFIGURATION

Now, you may want to edit `~/bin/speak-chat.conf` to suit. This is written in
YAML.

### STOP SPEAKING

Anytime you want chats to stop, set the "Stop" option at the top of the file to
1. Set it to 0 when you want chats to speak again.

### BUDDY MAP

Under `Buddies.Remap`, you can change the names used for your buddies. So, if in
a chat someone's name is "SomethingAnnoying" you could add:

    Buddies:
        Remap:
            "Something Annoying": "Dweeb"

### PRONUNCIATIONS

Under `Pronunciations`, each of the main keys are the title of the section,
which is just for your benefit. It doesn't really matter. Under each heading you can add three options:

 * **Priority:** This is the order to run the pronunciations in. The higher the
   number the later they run.
 * **Wrapper:** This is a Perl regular expression that will be used to wrap
   every term. Place a `"%s"` in the place you want the term inserted. This can
   save you lots of typing.
 * **Terms:** This will map a bunch of strings to match and remap. The keys are
   actually regular expressions and the values are replacements using the usual
   Perl syntax for such things.

I've included some examples of commong things that should help you get started.

Oh yeah, and all the regular expressions are set to be case insensitive by
default.

## KNOWN ISSUES

 * This script uses `flock()` to prevent chats from overlapping. However, the order
lock is granted by `flock()` is not defined, so if chats pile up, they will
start to come back out in a jumbled order.

 * If you set Stop, chatting doesn't stop until after all the queued up messages
have finished.

## TODO

 * Buddies remapping might be nice to have as another set of prunciations.
 
 * It would also be nice if you could select different voices for different 
buddies.
